# First long lecture!
Advent Calendar - 25 days in December when coders solve keeky problems every day!

The person that gives you the problem, dont care about string or arrays, it doesnt matter, really!

console.log resolves neraly 100% of the prblems

node debug can be used to debug your problems too!
ctrl + C para sair e entrar no node

Another debugger:

node --inspect-brk lecture_exemple.js --> in the console
go to chrome and put //chrome//inspect

## Name spacing

these libraries use what’s known as “namespacing,” which is the practice of applying a scope to the library that prevents that library’s methods and variables from overriding the methods and variables of the environment to which they’ve been added.

jQuery uses two – one as an alias of the other – names: jQuery and the more familiar $. Underscore, as you might expect, uses the _ character. Therefore the respective each methods would be $.each and _.each. This is possible through what we’ve been discussing with scoping.

## A closure and, more specifically, an “Immediately Invoked Function Expression” or IIFE

```javasxript

(function (args…) { })()

```

## Scope vs Context

it’s important to note that scope and context aren’t the same thing. Context is all about the specific situation where something is being run, and is most easily explored through the use of the this keyword. Scope is what helps define context.

## Using LET

If you use let declaration of variables inside the function or braces, you will contain that variable iside that braces, let does not allow it "to leave"

```javascript

var a = 1;

function one() {
  if (true) {
    let a = 4;
  }

  alert(a); // alerts '1' because the 'let' keyword uses block scoping
}

```

```javascript

var x = 5;

(function () {
    console.log(x);
    var x = 10;
    console.log(x);
})();
// This will print out undefined and 10 rather than 5 and 10 since JavaScript always moves variable declarations (not initializations) to the top of the scope, making the code equivalent to:

var x = 5;

(function () {
    var x;
    console.log(x);
    x = 10;
    console.log(x);
})();


````

- When you declare a variable, the code will acess it in order.
- But if you create a function, it doesnt matter the order you put it in the file, you can call it everywhere.
- That will not happen to the variable --> it only exist and can be acessed after it is created, in the file order.
- That will happen too if you create a function inside a variable! because the problem understands it is a varaible, not a function!

## import something!

```javascript

var subtract = require('./subtract.js')

```

jascript is lexically scoped --> if you didnt create a function, you did not create a new scope. If you open curly braces, you create a new block, but not a new scope! IF YOURE USING VAR.

```javascript

var x =0;
{
  x = 1;
  {
    x = 2;
  }
  console.log('x1', x)
}
x = 3
console.log('x2', x)
````

-->It wil print x1 2
x2 3