## Requiring Modules

In this activity you will learn the essentials of importing objects from another module using the require keyword.

As mentioned earlier, modules are Node's way of organizing code into individual files and packages.

Let's make a simple distinction between a module and a package:

A module is file that exports an object. Typically we use modules to organize our projects into individual components.
A package is something we install using npm
We will cover how import and export our own modules in the Node.js environment in a later activity, and later today we will discuss packages and npm.

### Requiring a Module

The basic syntax to import a module from your local filesystem using the require keyword:

```javascript

var myModule = require("./my-module");

```

This assumes that you have a file called my-module.js in the same directory as the file that is requiring the module. The file extension is not necessary, but it would also work if you wrote require("./my-module.js"). Common convention omits the the .js extension.

The imported object gets assigned to the variable, myModule in the above example.

The convention for naming files is less regular. You will probably see filenames using hyphens or underscores (but no spaces!) Typically lowercase, but not always.

Decide on a convention and stick to it. If you need a recommendation, then use hyphens and lowercase letters.

### Module Exports

Given that the syntax for importing a module is relatively straightforward – What is actually imported?

Naturally, one module's exports are imported by another.

Take, for instance, the file my-module.js mentioned earlier:

```javascript

module.exports = function() { /* ... */ }

```

However, module often export an object using the curly-brace syntax { ... }. The object can contain multiple functions, or even primitive values. Using an object is also convenient because its elements have named keys.

Let's look at an example, math-is-cool.js:

```javascript

module.exports = {
  PHI: 1.618,
  explain: function() {
    console.log("(X+Y) is to X as X is to Y: (X+Y)≈" + this.PHI);
  }
};

```

(Recall the significance of the keyword this in the above code.)

Importing the example module can look like this:

```javascript

var coolMath = require("./math-is-cool");

console.log(coolMath.PHI);  // log a Number

coolMath.explain();  // invokes the function `explain`

```

## Package

What are packages? They are self-contained code libraries that we can install and use in our Node.js projects.

If we want additional functionality in Node, then there is often a useful package available that has been written and maintained by the open source community.

## Node Package Manager (NPM)

Package managers take care of several problems when trying to pull in third-party code!
- they make sure that the packages we pull in also have all of their own dependencies downloaded.
- they make sure we have specific versions of a modle.
  - this is important to nake sure that the modules that we are working on

- creating your own module -->
- git init will create a json file

- npm i XXX will instal the package XXX in your computer!

## code to test our code

mocha and chai are assertion libraies!

npm i --save-dev moch chai --> will install the modules for you backwork involving testing and others!

create a directory where our tests are going to live!

in the main directory

inside package.json - change the file scripts/test to mocha

## npm-package.json
### Specifics of npm's package.json handling

### Name
If you plan to publish your package, the most important things in your package.json are the name and version fields as they will be required. The name and version together form an identifier that is assumed to be completely unique. Changes to the package should come along with changes to the version. If you don’t plan to publish your package, the name and version fields are optional.

### version
If you plan to publish your package, the most important things in your package.json are the name and version fields as they will be required. The name and version together form an identifier that is assumed to be completely unique. Changes to the package should come along with changes to the version. If you don’t plan to publish your package, the name and version fields are optional.

Version must be parseable by node-semver, which is bundled with npm as a dependency. (npm install semver to use it yourself.)

more on...
https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json

## Creating a module, using it and all... talke a look at the 3 exercises of day5, week1 !!! --> https://web.compass.lighthouselabs.ca/days/w01d5/activities/97

-----> exercises fo the day - step by step explained!

## npm and package.json

What are packages? They are self-contained code libraries that we can install and use in our Node.js projects.

If we want additional functionality in Node, then there is often a useful package available that has been written and maintained by the open source community.

### Installing Packages
Installing and using packages in Node is relatively straightforward from the command line. Say we want to install a package called chalk,

  npm install chalk

That's it!!

### package.json

Virtually all Node.js projects have a file called package.json, which looks similar to this:

```javascript
{
  "name": "project-name",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Short project summary",
  "main": "index.js",
  "scripts": {
    "myscript": "ENV=development node index.js",
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "MIT",
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "^4.13.4"
  }
}

```

There are some basic attributes such as the project's name, description, and author.

The scripts portion allows us to run commands using an alias, for instance:

  npm run myscript

The dependencies section of package.json lists the packages that need to be installed for the project to run properly. In the above example it lists a package called express, and the value ^4.13.4 specifies the version.

### Exercise

In this exercise we are going to install a package called chalk and use it in a simple Node script.

First, create a new working directory using mkdir in your Vagrant machine. Remember to do this within the /vagrant directory which is sync'd with your computer. Also remember to cd into that new directory after you make it (often a step that is forgotten).

Once in your working directory, execute the following command:

  npm init

(npm init creates your package.json, which you'll be able to edit later. Fill out the fields as desired -- but, don't call your project chalk)

Next we install the package chalk,

  npm install --save chalk

Then check the contents of your working directory by running ls -l - You should see a new subdirectory called node_modules/. This subdirectory contains each installed package. Confirm this by exploring ls -l node_modules/.

This enables us to import any installed packages, like chalk, into our JavaScript files within our working directory.

Create a new file called index.js,

```javascript

var chalk = require("chalk");

var message = "Hello " + chalk.yellow("World");
console.log(message);
Modify index.js to explore the functions of Chalk. Try chaining commands together to combine various styles.

```

Take a look through the source code on GitHub (https://github.com/chalk/chalk), including the project's package.json.

## Creating and Exporting Modules

As mentioned in the Requiring Modules reading, modules are Node's way of organizing code into individual files and packages. We also talked about creating your own modules.

Now we will cover how to create and utilize 'private' functions and variables within your modules, and what it means to make code private.

### Creating Private Functions and Variables

Let's look again at the example, math-is-cool.js:

```javascript

module.exports = {
  PHI: 1.618,
  explain: function() {
    console.log("(X+Y) is to X as X is to Y: (X+Y)≈" + this.PHI);
  }
};

```

(Recall the significance of the keyword this in the above code.)

This module exports the constant PHI and a function called explain. When this module is included in a file with require it allows you to easily access its fields like so:

```javascript

var coolMath = require("./math-is-cool");

console.log(coolMath.PHI);  // log a Number

coolMath.explain();  // invokes the function `explain`

```

However, code in a module file does not need to exist within the module.exports object. You could add any number of functions and variables to the file. Take a look at such a file, math-is-cooler-with-pi.js:

```javascript

function getPI() {
  var PI = 3.141;
  return PI;
}

module.exports = {
  PHI: 1.618,
  explain: function() {
    console.log("(X+Y) is to X as X is to Y: (X+Y)≈" + this.PHI);
  }
};

```

But wait! When math-is-cool-with-pi is imported into our app, we can't access the function getPI the same way we could with PHI or explain!

This is because that function has not been exported. Our app can only see the functions and variables that we specifically export. If not exported, they are hidden from our app.

As with functions, you can also declare global private variables by putting them outside the exports object.

### Using Private Functions and Variables

We now know how to make a function or variable 'private' in a module, but why would we want that?

As a module grows in complexity, a developer may find it prudent to limit what can be called or referenced from another script. By limiting what can be accessed, the author of the module can control how the module is used and prevent improper usage of the module's key functions and values.

In the above math-is-cooler-with-pi.js we didn't export getPI. Depending on the purpose of our module we may want to keep that function private because it's useful for the module's functionality, but not useful for anyone who uses the module to have access to.

Lets modify our example:

```javascript

function getPI() {
  var PI = 3.141;
  return PI;
}

module.exports = {
  PHI: 1.618,
  explain: function() {
    console.log("(X+Y) is to X as X is to Y: (X+Y)≈" + this.PHI);
  },
  getCircumference: function(diameter) {
    var circumference = diameter * getPI();
    return circumference;
  }
};

```

In our modifications, we added and exported a function called getCircumference. This takes the diameter of a circle as a parameter, multiplies it by PI, then returns the calculated circumference. It only ever accesses the value of PI through the use of our private function.

### Exercise

A local research group has tasked you with building their new web application! They want to be able to input numerical data and sort it accordingly. For this application, you're going to need a custom module for sorting data.

- With your new knowledge of importing and exporting modules, as well as creating private functions and variables, do the following:

- Create a module that exports a function that takes a number as a parameter and stores it in a list. The list should not be accessible from outside the module.

- Export another function that returns a version of the data list that is sorted in ascending order. The function you use to sort the data correctly should not be accessible from outside the module. (Think back to the Custom Sorting Exercise when handling sorting)

- Implement a Node.js script that imports the functionality of your module, adds at least 5 different data points to the module's data list, and outputs the sorted list.

## Running Tests with Mocha

In this activity you will use Mocha and Chai to execute an automated test suite.

You will also apply what you have learned about npm in order to install and use mocha and chai as dependencies for testing.

### Exercise

Clone the following repository and install its dependencies:

  git clone git@github.com:lighthouse-labs/web-js-palindromes.git

  cd web-js-palindromes

  npm install --save-dev mocha && npm install --save-dev chai

Considerations:

- The last line may look a little odd here. What is a conditional doing on the command line? This is a technique called 'short-circuiting' - <command1> && <command2> is equivalent to telling the CLI "run command1, and if it succeeds, run command2". Because chai requires mocha to run, if the mocha installation fails we don't want chai to install, so we can troubleshoot mocha before it goes any further.
- What purpose does the --save-dev flag serve? Discuss with your peers or a mentor.
  - (Hint: run git diff in your directory or inspect your package.json.)

### Update the package.json test script
JavaScript projects often behave according to standard conventions. An example of this is running tests using the command npm test.

- Edit your package.json, so the script section looks like this:

```javascript

"scripts": {
  "test": "mocha"
}

```

Depending on the version of node you have installed, you may experience a mocha cannot be found error.

If so, update your package.json scripts as follows:

```javascript

"scripts": {
  "test": "./node_modules/mocha/bin/mocha"
}

```

This will allow you to run your test suite (which you will create below).

### Code

Below is some code (located in the repo, in the file lib/palindromes.js) that we will be testing, which is a function intended to check if a string is a palindrome (whether a word or phrase is the same backwards as forwards, for instance madam or nurses run).

```javascript

function isPalindrome(s) {
  var stringReverse = s.split("").reverse().join("");
  return s == stringReverse;
}

module.exports = isPalindrome;

```

This code splits the input string s into an array of characters, reverses the array, and joins the array back into a string.

### Unit Tests

- Inside your test folder (./test), there is a file named test_palindromes.js, designed to test the isPalindrome function.
- Review that test code to ensure you have a good grasp of what it attempts to test.

### Running the Test Suite

From the terminal, execute the test:

  npm test

You can also specify a specific file to run:

  npm test test/test_palindromes.js

You will notice that one of the tests is failing.

- Try to determine why, and fix the isPalindrome function to satisfy the unit test.
