# GitHub Basics!
- create the directory
mkdir lighthouse-web-notes
- go into the directory
cd lighthouse-web-notes
- initialize the directory
git init
- create a file in the directory
touch README.md
- add the file in the repository
git add README.md
- commit to the changes
git commit -m  "Blank README.md added"
- add the changes file to your new repo - create it in the GitHub website then copy and paste the url of the new repo here - Add the URL of the new repo as a remote on your local repo
git remote add origin <URL>
- push the changes to the repo
git push -u origin master

forking a gist -->
- You fork it in GitHub
- Clone via SSH
- Then you go to terminal
- Go into the right folder
- git clone git@gist.github.com:YOUR_FORKS_ID.git lunch
when youre done:
- git add lunch.js
- git commit -m "Some important context here"
- git push

# Workflow as a Dev
- GitHub - start a new project
That will create a repository!
YES initialize with a README file! - that will help you to find the project/repository
- Edit the README.md explaining what the project is about - and plan what youre goingo to do!
- Clone the repository - copy the ssh code
ONLY CLONE WHEN YOURE INSIDE THE LIGHTHOUSE LABS FOLDER!
- Git clone url ssh
- Go into the folder of the project
- Open the files and WORK!
- see the status of the project --> GIT STATUS .
You will be able to see if the changes were saved
- git add README.md
- git commit -m "XXX"
- Use console.log to test what youre coding!
- Don't forget to git add the new files and commit!
By now, the add and commits are not connected to the remote server!
- git status, add, commit is the small work flow
- git push --> that will send it all to the server (when you do the clone from the server, you dont need to push origin/master, becasuse it already knows where it should go)

## method search the web: "mdn setence includes"
s = "1234"
s.includes("2")
true

## Flasey and Truthy

Truthy values are a fast and easy way to check conditions in your code. For example, maybe we want to save the users name to a String, but only if we don't already have something saved to username.

```javascript

username = '';

if (!username) {
  username = 'Siobhan';
}

```

Since we haven't yet saved anything to username, it's an empty String, and therefore returns falsey, which we account for with the bang !username, allowing the rest of our code to run.

The same concept can be applied to Arrays. Invoking the Array.length property will return 0 for an empty Array, which is also a falsey value.

```javascript

shoppingList = [];

if (!shoppingList.length) {
  shoppingList.push('coconut milk');
}

```

This is a simple way to check if our Shopping List is empty, and if it is we can add some delicious coconut milk to it!






