## Objects!

In the object you cannot acess it in the same way you acess a array, because the order can change and it is not realiable.

```javascript
var friends = instructor['friends'];
var bestFriends = friends[1];

console.log ('Instructor best friend:', instructor['friends'][1]);

 ```

You can reassign a value to a key that already exists. And the last declared key - with the same name - wins.


When you want to add a key to an object using a variable, you should put it inside [], otherwise, it will understand that the variable name is the actually key name.

## passing by value X reference

If your variable points do an object and that object is later modified, the varaible will be modified as weel, because it points do the same thing.
If a variable points to a primitive number and another variable points to this variable, you can change then independently - and that is not going to change the other.

```javascript
var a = {key: 1};

var b = a;

a = {newkey: 2};

//b is going to change to and be equals a!

var a = 1;

var b = a;

a = 2;

//b is still going to be equal 1, it will not change!

````

## THIS

```javascript

var person = {
  firstName: 'Bob',
  lastName:  'Smith',
  fullName: function() {
    return this.firstName + ' ' + this.lastName;
  }
}

// Nice, now I can just say:
console.log('Hello, ' + person.fullName());
// And it's much "cleaner" every time I need their full name!
```

In this case the function exists inside of the person object. It is a simple operation of combining both parts of its own name. Functions like this that are attached to objects are often referred to as a "method". Other code can now invoke or call methods like these from outside the object, without having to know or care about how they run.

However in introducing this concept of methods, we've also introduced the concept of this, a new keyword that is often found when working with methods in JavaScript. Try removing this in your version of the code above and run it. You'll find that it results in an error. We need the method to be able to refer to the object that it is within.

## Object Keys --> how to call them

The Object.keys() method returns an array of a given object's own property names, in the same order as we get with a normal loop.


```javascript

const object1 = {
  a: 'somestring',
  b: 42,
  c: false
};

console.log(Object.keys(object1));
// expected output: Array ["a", "b", "c"]

```

## learning how to acess properties of nested objects inside nested objects inside another nested object!!!!! insane

## for in -->

The for...in statement iterates over all non-Symbol, enumerable properties of an object.

```javascript

var string1 = "";
var object1 = {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3};

for (var property1 in object1) {
  string1 += object1[property1];
}

console.log(string1);
// expected output: "123"

```

## Conditional (ternary) operator --> xx ? x : x;

The conditional (ternary) operator is the only JavaScript operator that takes three operands. This operator is frequently used as a shortcut for the if statement.

```javascript

function getFee(isMember) {
  return (isMember ? "$2.00" : "$10.00");
}

console.log(getFee(true));
// expected output: "$2.00"

console.log(getFee(false));
// expected output: "$10.00"

console.log(getFee(1));
// expected output: "$2.00"

```
## this

In most cases, the value of this is determined by how a function is called. It can't be set by assignment during execution, and it may be different each time the function is called. ES5 introduced the bind() method to set the value of a function's this regardless of how it's called, and ES2015 introduced arrow functions which don't provide their own this binding (it retains the this value of the enclosing lexical context).

```javascript

var test = {
  prop: 42,
  func: function() {
    return this.prop;
  },
};

console.log(test.func());
// expected output: 42

```


