## JavaScript Functions as Objects

- functions can be stored in variables and passed around
- functions can do everything that other objects can do (like having attributes assigned to them).
Check this out:

```javascript

var myFn = function() {
  console.log("I am function.");
}

myFn.someAttribute = 42;
console.log(myFn.someAttribute);

function runner(f) {
  f();
}

runner(myFn);

```

## Data Structure

If you see an array you know you can loop trhough it, you can use index...
If you see an object you know you can acess its properties

consistency in Data Structures --> is good because it is reliable.

Create an object --> new --> in this case a particular object - a DATE

```javascript

tweeps[0].when = new Date('2018-11-28');
console.log(tweeps[0].when);
console.log(tweeps[0].when.toString()); // acessing the property of the object when inside the the object in position 0 inside the array!

tweeps[0]['where'] = 'Toronto' //assinging a new propertiy in the object in the index 0 of the array!

function timestamp(tweep) { //creating a new property in a object --> tweep is a reference for the object inside the function and thats why you should call this function with the index to say in wich object inside the array it willa ct!
  tweep.timestamp = new Date(); //if you dont specify a data, it will use the NOW.
}

timestamp(tweeps[0]); // you can call the function anywhere in the file, because a function is global, and the obect is a reference.
timestamp(tweeps[1]);


// if we do this:

timestamp(tweeps[0]); // that wont work, because the function was not declared by the time the function was called! It wont understand timestamp as a function! it will understand it as a variable, because at this point it did not go into the variable to discover it is a function!

var timestamp = function(tweep) { // NOW you have a variable!
  tweep.timestamp = new Date(); // the new here says - 'create an object'!
}

timestamp(tweeps[1]);  // that is going to work just fine, because the computer already entered the variable and discovered it is a function!
//varaibles are read only when the pc reaches the actual point of the file it is in. The function is "roughly" read before - it understands the function exists and if it needs to use it, it will go there and go trhough it!

// THAT IS WHY A FUNCTION IS A FIRST CLASS OBJECT!!
// Functions in javascript are first class objects. This means that javascript functions are just a special type of object that can do all the things that regular objects can do.

var approval = function (tweep) {
  tweep.approved = true;
}

approval(tweeps[3]);

//NOW YOU CAN WRITE A FUNCTION THAT DOES BOTH FUCNTIONS... OR ADD ANYTHING YOU WANT TO THE OBJECT YOU WANT!

function changeTweep(tweep, key, value) {
  // tweep.key = value; // that is wrong because when you use '.key' the pc will understand that you want literally a new property with the 'key' name!
  // tweep.['key'] = value; // that is wrong, too! because when you use '['key']' the pc will understand that you want literally a new property with the 'key' name, too!
  tweep[key] = value;
}

changeTweep(tweep[2], 'approved', true); // 'approved' will be literally the name of the key, true is a boolean value, it doe not need a ''. Keys are always converted to String by coersion.

for (i = 0 ; i<tweeps.length; i ++) {
  changeTweep (tweeps[i], 'Id', i)
}

// next step is to be able to change more things inside the function! now uyou can assign new keys and put values inside it. BUT what if the key already exists!

// function changeTweep (tweep, soSomething) {
//   doSomething(tweep);
// }

changeTweep(tweeps[2], timestamp); // timestamp is a variable, so it will call that variable, that is actually a function!


// but the function can be better! even better!

function changeTweep (handle, doSomething) {
  for (tweep of tweeps) {
    if (tweep.who == handle) {
      doSomething(tweep)
    }
  }
}

changeTweep('@mozilla', timestamp); // now you need to call it by the handle!!

// a function that its been passed to a function as a parameter is a callback! because it may be called when you inside another function! --> timestep is the callback!

changeTweep('@mozilla', function (tweep) {
  tweep.anything = "is Possible";
}); // now you have a fucntion that only exists if the function it is inside is called! Its a callback!

```
A callback function:

Is a function passed (by reference) into another function (let's call that one the "receiver" function)
The receiver function is therefore accepting behavior to perform by calling the callback function that it now has access to
The receiver function can decide to call the callback function at any time as many times as it wants

## Closures definition

JavaScript will retain the context of parent functions, meaning that it will retain references to any variables in parent functions (this is referred to as Lexical Scoping 1).

When a function retains the context of a parent function, we call that a "closure".

```javascript

var outer = function() {
  var x = 10;

  var inner = function() {
    console.log("The value of x is: " + x);
  }
  return inner;
};

var foo = outer();
foo();

```

What will foo() print? Will x be 10, undefined or something else? What would make sense to you?

Try it in the REPL. You'll discover that it prints The value of x is: 10. Why? Because the above code is executed in the following manner.

Function outer is invoked: outer().
outer assigns the value 10 to the variable x.
outer defines a function and assigns it to the variable inner.
outer returns the value of inner – the just-defined function.
inner function is assigned to the variable foo.
Function foo is invoked, logging The value of x is: 10 to the console.
The key attribute of closures is demonstrated here: the inner function accesses variable x, which is defined within the parent function outer.

## Immediately-invoked function expression

You can alternatively use an immediately-invoked function expression (IIFE) to achieve a similar result.

```javascript

var foo = (function() {
  var x = 10;

  var inner = function() {
    console.log("Value of x is: " + x);
  }
  return inner;
})(); // Notice the () at the end,
      // which will immediately invoke the function,
      // assigning the returned value (inner) to foo

foo();

```

## Function.prototype.apply()

The apply() method calls a function with a given this value, and arguments provided as an array (or an array-like object).

```javascript

var numbers = [5, 6, 2, 3, 7];

var max = Math.max.apply(null, numbers);

console.log(max);
// expected output: 7

var min = Math.min.apply(null, numbers);

console.log(min);
// expected output: 2


```

## The arguments object

Note: “Array-like” means that arguments has a length property and properties indexed from zero, but it doesn't have Array's built-in methods like forEach() and map(). See §Description for details.

```javascript

arguments is an Array-like object accessible inside functions that contains the values of the arguments passed to that function.

function func1(a, b, c) {
  console.log(arguments[0]);
  // expected output: 1

  console.log(arguments[1]);
  // expected output: 2

  console.log(arguments[2]);
  // expected output: 3
}

func1(1, 2, 3);

```

## Array.prototype.sort()

The sort() method sorts the elements of an array in place and returns the array. The default sort order is built upon converting the elements into strings, then comparing their sequences of UTF-16 code units values.

```javascript

var months = ['March', 'Jan', 'Feb', 'Dec'];
months.sort();
console.log(months);
// expected output: Array ["Dec", "Feb", "Jan", "March"]

var array1 = [1, 30, 4, 21, 100000];
array1.sort();
console.log(array1);
// expected output: Array [1, 100000, 21, 30, 4]

```

Sorting an array lexicographically (aka "alphabetically" or in dictionary order) is easy to do. Just call array.sort() without any parameters passed in:

```javascript

//Sort alphabetically and ascending:
var myarray=["Bob", "Bully", "Amy"]
myarray.sort() // Array now becomes ["Amy", "Bob", "Bully"]

```

Notice that the order is ascending. To make it descending instead, the simplest way is to enlist the help of another Array method in combination, array.reverse():

```javascript

//Sort alphabetically and descending:
var myarray=["Bob", "Bully", "Amy"]
myarray.sort()
myarray.reverse() //Array now becomes ["Bully", "Bob", "Amy"]

```

Now, before you start feeling comfortable, consider what happens if we call array.sort() on an array consisting of numbers:

```javascript

var myarray=[7, 40, 300]
myarray.sort() //Array now becomes [300,40,7]

```

Although 7 is numerically smaller than 40 or 300, lexicographically, it is larger, so 7 appears at the very right of the sorted array. Remember, by default array.sort() sorts its elements in lexicographical order.

As touched on already, array.sort() accepts an optional parameter in the form of a function reference (lets call it sortfunction). The format of this function looks like this:

```javascript

function sortfunction(a, b){
    //Compare "a" and "b" in some fashion, and return -1, 0, or 1
}
array.sort(sortfunction)

```

When such a function is passed into array.sort(), the array elements are sorted based on the relationship between each pair of elements "a" and "b" and the function's return value. The three possible return numbers are: <0 (less than 0), 0, or >0 (greater than 0):

- Less than 0: Sort "a" to be a lower index than "b"
-  Zero: "a" and "b" should be considered equal, and no sorting performed.
-  Greater than 0: Sort "b" to be a lower index than "a".

To sort an array numerically and ascending for example, the body of your function would look like this:

```javascript

function sortfunction(a, b){ //causes an array to be sorted numerically and ascending
    return (a - b)
}

```

## Array.prototype.forEach()

The forEach() method executes a provided function once for each array element.

```javascript

var array1 = ['a', 'b', 'c'];

array1.forEach(function(element) {
  console.log(element);
});

// expected output: "a"
// expected output: "b"
// expected output: "c"

```

## Array.prototype.map()

The map() method creates a new array with the results of calling a provided function on every element in the calling array.

```javascript

var array1 = [1, 4, 9, 16];

// pass a function to map
const map1 = array1.map(x => x * 2);

console.log(map1);
// expected output: Array [2, 8, 18, 32]

```

## Array.prototype.filter()

The filter() method creates a new array with all elements that pass the test implemented by the provided function.

```javascript

var words = ['spray', 'limit', 'elite', 'exuberant', 'destruction', 'present'];

const result = words.filter(word => word.length > 6);

console.log(result);
// expected output: Array ["exuberant", "destruction", "present"]

```

## Filter Unique Values

ARRAYS

The Set object type was introduced in ES6, and along with ..., the ‘spread’ operator, we can use it to create a new array with only the unique values.

This trick works for arrays containing primitive types: undefined, null, boolean, string and number . (If you had an array containing objects, functions or additional arrays, you’d need a different approach!)

```javascript

const array = [1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 5, 1]
const uniqueArray = [...new Set(array)];
console.log(uniqueArray); // Result: [1, 2, 3, 5]

```

##


## Unit Testing, Integration Testing and Functional Testing?

### Unit Testing

- Unit testing is the practice of testing small pieces of code, typically individual functions, alone and isolated. If your test uses some external resource, like the network or a database, it’s not a unit test.

- Unit tests should be fairly simple to write. A unit tests should essentially just give the function that’s tested some inputs, and then check what the function outputs is correct. In practice this can vary, because if your code is poorly designed, writing unit tests can be difficult. Because of that, unit testing is the only testing method which also helps you write better code – Code that’s hard to unit test usually has poor design.

- In a sense, unit testing is the backbone. You can use unit tests to help design your code and keep it as a safety net when doing changes, and the same methods you use for unit testing are also applicable to the other types of testing.

- Unit tests are also great for preventing regressions – bugs that occur repeatedly. Many times there’s been a particularly troublesome piece of code which just keeps breaking no matter how many times I fix it. By adding unit tests to check for those specific bugs, you can easily prevent situations like that.

- When should you use unit testing? Ideally all the time, by applying test-driven development. A good set of unit tests do not only prevent bugs, but also improve your code design, and make sure you can later refactor your code without everything completely breaking apart.

Popular tools for unit testing include Mocha, Jasmine and Tape.

### Integration Testing

- As the name suggests, in integration testing the idea is to test how parts of the system work together – the integration of the parts. Integration tests are similar to unit tests, but there’s one big difference: while unit tests are isolated from other components, integration tests are not. For example, a unit test for database access code would not talk to a real database, but an integration test would.

- As the name suggests, in integration testing the idea is to test how parts of the system work together – the integration of the parts. Integration tests are similar to unit tests, but there’s one big difference: while unit tests are isolated from other components, integration tests are not. For example, a unit test for database access code would not talk to a real database, but an integration test would.

- Integration tests are often slower than unit tests because of the added complexity. They also might need some set up or configuration, such as the setting up of a test database. This makes writing and maintaining them harder than unit tests, so you should focus on unit tests unless you absolutely need an integration test.

- You should have fewer integration tests than unit tests. You should mainly use them if you need to test two separate systems together, or if a piece of code is too complex to unit test. But in the latter case, I would recommend fixing the code so it’s easy to unit test instead.

Integration tests can usually be written with the same tools as unit tests.

### Functional Testing

- Functional testing is also sometimes called E2E testing, or browser testing. They all refer to the same thing.-

- Functional testing is defined as the testing of complete functionality of some application. In practice with web apps, this means using some tool to automate a browser, which is then used to click around on the pages to test the application.-

- You might use a unit test to test an individual function and an integration test to check that two parts of the play nice. Functional tests are on a whole another level. While you can have hundreds of unit tests, you usually want to have only a small amount of functional tests. This is mainly because functional tests can be difficult to write and maintain due to their very high complexity. They also run very slowly, because they simulate real user interaction on a web page, so even page load times become a factor.-

- Because of all this, you shouldn’t try to make very fine grained functional tests. You don’t want to test a single function, despite the name “functional” perhaps hinting at it. Instead, functional tests should be used for testing common user interactions. If you would manually test a certain flow of your app in a browser, such as registering an account, you could make that into a functional test.-

- While in unit and integration tests you would validate the results in code, functional test results should be validated the same way as you would validate it if you were a user of the page. Going with the registration example, you could validate it by checking that the browser is redirected to a “thanks for registering page”.-

- You should use functional tests if you have some repeated tests you do manually in the browser, but be careful to not make them too fine-grained, as they can easily become a nightmare to maintain. I know, because I’ve seen it happen many times.-

- The most common tool used for functional testing is Selenium. Running Selenium is usually done with Selenium WebDriver, or Protractor. Sometimes PhantomJS and CasperJS can be used as well, especially if you don’t need to test in real browsers.

### RESUME

- Unit tests should be your main focus when testing JavaScript code. They are the easiest to write and maintain, and provide many benefits beyond reducing bugs. Integration and functional tests should be in a supporting role, for where unit tests are not suitable.

## THE HAPPY PATH

- As the saying goes, testing only proves the presence of bugs, not their absence. The goal of testing is to find as many of these bugs as possible before moving code into production, in the hope that we will avoid inflicting them on our poor unsuspecting users.  Unlike a system in which we intentionally design and deploy the first eighty percent so as to get some value to the customers more quickly, we cannot test just eighty percent using a similar rationale. We need to test everything we build as best we can.-

- There is a limit, of course.  You can’t test forever.  The trick is to know what to test, and to test those parts thoroughly.-

- A co-worker of mine often talks about the “happy path.”  The happy path is the path through a system where everything works, the data is correct, the system stays up, and the users are well-behaved.  We tend to test the happy path first because we understand how the system should function and want to ensure that the basic features should work.-

- This results in testing scenarios like this-

- User selects an item and adds it to their cart
  - User enters billing data
  - User enters shipping data
  - User clicks “Check Out”
  - Transaction is processed
  - If this works, has the system been tested?  Yes.  Would you move it into production? The right answer is “no,” but I’ve used a lot of systems where the apparent answer was “you bet!”-

- It doesn’t take long to test the happy path.  It takes forever to test everything off the happy path. You need to spend a lot of time wandering away from the happy path, and maybe there is a reverse rule for testing: 20% of your time on the happy path; 80% of your time off of it.

## Code coverage

In computer science, test coverage is a measure used to describe the degree to which the source code of a program is executed when a particular test suite runs. A program with high test coverage, measured as a percentage, has had more of its source code executed during testing, which suggests it has a lower chance of containing undetected software bugs compared to a program with low test coverage.Many different metrics can be used to calculate test coverage; some of the most basic are the percentage of program subroutines and the percentage of program statements called during execution of the test suite.

## Stubbing and mocking

Stubbing means replacing a method, function or an entire object with a version that produces hard-coded responses. This is typically used to isolate components from each other, and your code from the outside world. For example, stubbing is often used to decouple tests from storage systems and to hard-code the result of HTTP requests to test code that relies on data from the internet.

Mocking is a form of testing that involves verifying behaviour by checking which methods are called during a test. Like stubbing, it involves replacing methods with fake versions, but it also means setting expectations that those methods must be called. This is used to specify contracts between layers of an application, and to test side-effects.

### Stubbing methods

We’ll cover stubbing first because it shares a lot of API with mocking, and is a little simpler. To stub out a method on an object we use the stub() function.

```javascript
stub(object, 'methodName')
object.methodName() // -> undefined

````

This is the simplest stub you can make, it means that any call to object.methodName() with any arguments will return undefined and have no side-effects. You can specify a return value using the returns modifier. If you provide multiple return values they will each be used in turn, looping back to the start when you reach the end of the list.

```javascript

stub(object, 'methodName').returns('hello')
object.methodName() // -> 'hello'

stub(object, 'methodName').returns('many', 'return', 'values')
object.methodName() // -> 'many'
object.methodName() // -> 'return'
object.methodName() // -> 'values'
object.methodName() // -> 'many'

```
--> source of mocking material: http://jstest.jcoglan.com/mocking.html
